---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Cleaner Code
date: 2022-02-07
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Learning
  - Coding Style
---
## What is Coding Standards?
Coding standards assist in the development of less complex software systems, helping to reduce errors. If software engineering standards are followed, the code is consistent and easy to maintain because anyone can understand and modify the code at any time.

## Learning Coding Style
Looking back to when I first started to code, using block coding, the organization of the code is very unclean and messy. In my codes for ICS 111, the code was organized a little better, but there are many style errors that can be fixed to make it nicer and easier read. Being introduced to commenting in ICS 111 and "<a href="http://courses.ics.hawaii.edu/ics211s21/morea/010.introduction/reading-java-coding-standard.html">ICS Java Coding Standed</a>" in ICS 211 helped explain, organize, and write cleaner codes. In ICS 212, we utilizedd Vim, text editor with very primal editintg, on unix. The class had strict coding style to follow, but it was very beneficial, allowing us to be more consistent and cleaner with coding files. (<a href="https://github.com/Louie808/Louie808.github.io/blob/master/images/ICS212_hw8_code_style.png">code file example of C/C++ ICS 212 file and method commenting</a>)

## Intellij and ESLint First Impressions
While ESLint is enabled and I first begin to write Javascript on Intellij, many red lines appear. I find it very distracting to have to see those lines at the beginning and I want to fix it right away. It is bad practice, but I would end up enabling the ESLint after solving the coding question to modify code to meet the coding standards.
Other than that, I find using ESLint very useful helping me catch writing style errors and fixing it up. As I continue to learn more about software engineering, 
