---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: Excersizing Software Engineering Skills
date: 2022-02-25
labels:
  - Software Engineering
  - Collaboration
  - IDPM
  - Reflection
---
This semester, I got hands-on experience as a software engineer by working with a client. It involved updating a website to match the client's preferences and making the code easier to read for future programmers.

### Software Engineering II
In my ICS 414 class, our big project was all about giving a makeover to a web app made by students before us. This time, I teamed up with seven classmates, which was the most massive group I've ever worked with on a school project. Our weekly routine involved checking out each other's code every Monday at 9 AM, and we took turns showing off our progress in class every other Wednesday. To keep the ideas flowing, we set up a Discord server just for our project chats. We kept things organized using Github for version control and went with issue-driven-project-management (IDPM). It's funny because most of us didn't know each other at the start, but we didn't clash much, and we pulled off a successful project. Teamwork and putting in the effort were key to making it all work.

You can learn more about the project in the <a href="https://github.com/bang-software"><i class="large github icon"></i>Bang-Software Gitpage</a>

The journey into these real-world tasks and skills of a software engineer has not only broadened my technical expertise but also underscored the significance of effective teamwork and unwavering dedication in achieving shared goals.
<br><br>
